hello on behalf of TCS I would like to
thank you for your interest in a while
sound product line this is an
informative video empirically explaining
why the TCS Wow sound is the highest
quality DCC sound decoder available and
gives an explanation as to what CD
quality is there are two major factors
that make the wow sound sound so good
the first is pure recording TCS does
little to no digital editing of our
sounds so that they remain as close to
the original as possible the second
major factor is audio quality you could
have the best speaker in the world but
if your audio signal is poor quality the
speaker doesn't matter this is a picture
of John indeed recording nickel plate
roads number 765 Berkshire locomotive
all 300 plus sounds in the wild salmon
of real steam engines pictured here is
John during a whistle blow all 20-plus
of our whistles were blown while being
powered by a real steam engine so what
you hear is how they would sound on an
actual locomotive realism is very
important to TCS recording as a team
effort pictured here are some of the TCS
staff after a day of recording at the
Strasburg railroad Pennsylvania each of
our recording trips have been documented
with pictures and videos in addition to
our audio recordings check out the TCS
website often for more updates pictures
videos and demonstrations as our sound
library expands now I will talk about
the second major component to the wow
sounds superb sound quality and that is
using cd-quality audio CD quality audio
is what you hear on CD players and is
more than four times more accurate than
the highest quality mp3 file why should
your model train use anything less CD
quality is defined as 44100 samples per
second with 16 bits of resolution this
scrap shows a combination of quality
based on bit depth and sample rate no
other DCC manufacturer has even half of
the quality that TCS has by using CD
quality now for an explanation of what
bit depth is bit depth defines how many
voltage levels the digital-to-analog
converter can send to the speaker
or in simpler terms is how many tones
the decoder can reproduce cd-quality
audio uses 16 bits of resolution since
bit depth changes exponentially that
gives the TCS decoder 2 raised to the
16th power tones or 65,536 tones that it
can reproduce other manufacturers will
try to deceive you into thinking that
they have 16-bit audio samples but they
can't truthfully say that they may be
using a 16-bit processor but that's not
worth a piece of coal unless your audio
signal is also 16-bit our closest
competitor is using 12 bit audio samples
which gives them only 4096 tones that
they can reproduce which is 2 raised of
12th power which means that the wow
sound decoder can produce 16 times more
than our nearest competitors decoder can
the other part of CD quality sound is
the sample rate CD quality sound
requires taking 44100 samples per second
which can accurately reproduce the
majority of sounds and frequencies that
the human ear can hear anything less
than that and the harmonics and tones
that your ear can hear will be missing
causing the sound to not sound as real
this slide gives a visual demonstration
of how a good sampling rate is required
to accurately reproduce sounds the blue
sine wave on the left is the original
sound the green bars represent the WoW
sound sample rate the purple bars
represent our nearest competitor sample
rate with the wow sound sampling rate
the resulting Audio waves shown on the
right is almost an exact duplicate of
the original the same cannot be said
about our nearest competitor at sample
rates lower than 44,000 100 samples per
second audio recordings cannot be as
accurately produced which make the
decoder sound not as real in summary TCS
uses pure recordings with little to no
digital editing so the recordings in the
WoW sound decoder are very true to the
original our use of CD quality sound
also enables us to reproduce high
quality sound that is better than any
other manufacturers if you want the best
choose wow sound thank you for watching
this clip on
audio quality be sure to check out our
website for more videos and information
about the wow sound decoder line from
TCS also make sure you sign up for our
email listing so you can get the latest
information on TCS products updates and
recording trips thank